feat: revise developer mode installation (#482)
harvester/docs: docs/developer/developer-mode-installation.md

---

# Developer Mode

:::caution attention

Developer mode is intended to be used for development and testing purposes. Usage of this mode in production environments is not supported.

:::

## Prerequisites

- The node has passed the [host-check](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/harvester/master/hack/host-check.sh)
- Helm 3 and Git are installed on your local machine.

## Installation

You can install Harvester on an [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) CLI. For more information about installing and configuring the Harvester Helm chart, see the [readme](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/master/deploy/charts/harvester/README.md).

1. Create an RKE2 configuration file.
    ```bash
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/rancher/rke2
    cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
    disable:
    - rke2-snapshot-controller
    - rke2-snapshot-controller-crd
    - rke2-snapshot-validation-webhook
    node-label:
    - harvesterhci.io/managed=true
    token: token
    cni:
    - multus
    - canal
    EOF
    ```

1. Install RKE2.
    ```bash
    curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | sudo sh -
    sudo systemctl enable rke2-server.service

>     sudo systemctl start rke2-server.service

Reviewer: We can give a `--now` flag to the `enable` line to make it take effect immediately.

    ```

1. Create a kubeconfig file.
    ```bash

>     sudo chmod 644 /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml
>     mkdir -p ~/.kube
>     cp /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml ~/.kube/config

Reviewer: This will make `rke2.yaml` global readable. I think it's better to just copy out the file and then change the owner of it, like the following:
```suggestion
    mkdir -p ~/.kube
    sudo cp /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml ~/.kube/config
    sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) ~/.kube/config
```
And helm won't complain about the file permission.

    ```

1. Install system-upgrade-controller. This Kubernetes-native upgrade controller for nodes installs `upgrade.cattle.io/v1` CRDs.
    ```bash

>     kubectl apply -f https://github.com/rancher/system-upgrade-controller/releases/download/v0.13.1/system-upgrade-controller.yaml

Reviewer: Do we need to kindly mention where the `kubectl` binary is? If the user doesn't install `kubectl` before walking through the guide, they'll find the binary under `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/bin`.

Author: @starbops, thanks for the suggestion. @jillian-maroket, I update some line 63 here. Could you take a look again? Thank you.

Reviewer 2: @FrankYang0529 I moved the kubectl details to a note and placed it after the code block. This keeps the step wording short and consistent with the others. In terms of info hierarchy, it also makes sense to mention the command before the supporting details.

---
id: developer-mode-installation
title: "Developer Mode Installation"
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Developer
keywords:
  - Harvester
  - harvester
  - Rancher
  - rancher
  - Developer Mode Installation
Description: Developer mode (dev mode) is intended to be used for testing and development purposes.
---

> # Developer Mode Installation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Developer Mode
```

:::caution attention

> Developer mode (dev mode) is intended to be used for local testing and development purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developer mode is intended to be used for development and testing purposes. Usage of this mode in production environments is not supported.
```

:::

> ## Requirements
> 
> - The Node must pass the [host-check](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/harvester/master/hack/host-check.sh)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

- The node has passed the [host-check](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/harvester/master/hack/host-check.sh).
```

- Helm 3 and Git are installed on your local machine.

## Installation

> For development purpose, Harvester can be installed on a [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) cluster by using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) CLI.
> 
> Please refer to the Harvester [Helm chart](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/master/deploy/charts/harvester/README.md) for more details on installing and configuring the Helm chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can install Harvester on an [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) CLI. For more information about installing and configuring the Harvester Helm chart, see the [readme]](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/master/deploy/charts/harvester/README.md).
```

> 1. Add RKE2 config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an RKE2 configuration file.
```

    ```bash
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/rancher/rke2
    cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
    disable:
    - rke2-snapshot-controller
    - rke2-snapshot-controller-crd
    - rke2-snapshot-validation-webhook
    node-label:
    - harvesterhci.io/managed=true
    token: token
    cni:
    - multus
    - canal
    EOF
    ```

1. Install RKE2.
    ```bash
    curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | sudo sh -
    sudo systemctl enable rke2-server.service
    sudo systemctl start rke2-server.service
    ```

> 1. Get kubeconfig.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a kubeconfig file.
```

    ```bash
    sudo chmod 644 /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml
    mkdir -p ~/.kube
    cp /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml ~/.kube/config
    ```

> 1. Install system-upgrade-controller. The component installs `upgrade.cattle.io/v1` CRDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install system-upgrade-controller. This Kubernetes-native upgrade controller for nodes installs `upgrade.cattle.io/v1` CRDs.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/rancher/system-upgrade-controller/releases/download/v0.13.1/system-upgrade-controller.yaml
    ```

> 1. Create `cattle-system` namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create the cattle-system namespace.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl create ns cattle-system
    ```

> 1. Add Rancher repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the Rancher chart repository.
```

    ```bash
    helm repo add rancher-latest https://releases.rancher.com/server-charts/latest
    ```

> 1. Install rancher v2.7.5 chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the Rancher v2.7.5 chart.
```

    ```bash
    helm install rancher rancher-latest/rancher \
    --namespace cattle-system \
    --set tls=external \
    --set rancherImagePullPolicy=IfNotPresent \
    --set rancherImage=rancher/rancher \
    --set rancherImageTag=v2.7.5 \
    --set noDefaultAdmin=false \
    --set features="multi-cluster-management=false\,multi-cluster-management-agent=false" \
    --set useBundledSystemChart=true \
    --set bootstrapPassword=admin
    ```

> 1. Clone rancher/charts repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone the `rancher/charts` repository.
```

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/rancher/charts -b dev-v2.7
    ```

> 1. Install rancher-montering-crd chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the rancher-monitoring-crd chart.
```

    ```bash
    helm install rancher-monitoring-crd ./charts/charts/rancher-monitoring-crd/102.0.2+up40.1.2/
    ```

> 1. Create `harvester-system` namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create the harvester-system namespace.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl create ns harvester-system
    ```

> 1. Clone harvester/harvester repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone the `harvester/harvester` repository.
```

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/harvester/harvester.git
    ```

> 1. Install harvester-crd chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the harvester-crd chart.
```

    ```bash
    helm install harvester-crd ./harvester/deploy/charts/harvester-crd --namespace harvester-system
    ```

> 1. Install harvester chart. Use static mode kube-vip for developer mode installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the Harvester chart using kube-vip running on a static pod.
```

Reviewer 2: "static mode" does not seem to be an official term (I cannot find it in the kube-vip docs). Is the revised wording correct?

    ```bash
    VIP_IP="replace with your node ip, such as 192.168.5.10"
    helm install harvester ./harvester/deploy/charts/harvester --namespace harvester-system \
    --set harvester-node-disk-manager.enabled=true \
    --set "harvester-node-disk-manager.labelFilter={COS_*,HARV_*}" \
    --set harvester-network-controller.enabled=true \
    --set harvester-network-controller.vipEnabled=true \
    --set harvester-load-balancer.enabled=true \
    --set kube-vip.enabled=true \
    --set kube-vip-cloud-provider.enabled=true \
    --set longhorn.enabled=true \
    --set longhorn.defaultSettings.defaultDataPath=/var/lib/harvester/defaultdisk \
    --set longhorn.defaultSettings.taintToleration=kubevirt.io/drain:NoSchedule \
    --set service.vip.enabled=true \
    --set service.vip.mode=static \

>     --set service.vip.ip=${VIP_IP}

Author: @starbops @w13915984028, could you share some idea about static vip mode? What is the limitation? Is it good enough for developer mode? Thank you.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for updating the `dev mode`.

It looks fine to limit the vip to `static` in `dev mode`.

Do we also limit the `dev mode` to single-node or allow multi-node cluster?

Reviewer: 1. Yes, as the VIP exists, the other joining nodes should be able to contact the VIP to complete the registration flow.
2. In dev mode we don't have harvester-installer and thus mgmt-br is missing. The VIP address will be bound to the main interface, e.g., enp1s0. This is not specific to DHCP mode only.
3. To set up the cluster with DHCP mode VIP, configure it with `--set service.vip.mode=dhcp`, `--set service.vip.hwAddress=<macaddr of interest>`, and remember to to add `--set rancherEmbedded=true`, too.

Reviewer: I forgot to mention the `--set rancherEmbedded=true` is also required in static mode. Otherwise, no LB Service (`ingress-expose`) will be created.

Reviewer: Another thing to add: if the user is not going to set up a static DHCP lease for the VIP address beforehand, the `service.vip.hwAddress` will not be necessary. After the installation, kube-vip will acquire a random IP address from the DHCP services configured pool as the VIP address.

Author: @starbops, thanks for suggestions!

Yeah, from source code, we need `rancherEmbedded` to create `ingress-expose` service.

https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/acb6e69121a9843c8e7616de9f44401293c4d238/pkg/controller/master/rancher/register.go#L72-L99

    ```

> 1. Expose Harvester UI via https://${VIP_IP}. The default password is `admin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Access the Harvester UI at https://${VIP_IP}. The default password is `admin`.
```

---
id: developer-mode-installation
title: "Developer Mode Installation"
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Developer
keywords:
  - Harvester
  - harvester
  - Rancher
  - rancher
  - Developer Mode Installation
Description: Developer mode (dev mode) is intended to be used for testing and development purposes.
---

# Developer Mode

:::caution attention

Developer mode is intended to be used for development and testing purposes. Usage of this mode in production environments is not supported.

:::

## Prerequisites

- The node has passed the [host-check](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/harvester/harvester/master/hack/host-check.sh)
- Helm 3 and Git are installed on your local machine.

> ## Installation first node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installation of the First Node
```

You can install Harvester on an [RKE2](https://docs.rke2.io/) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh/) CLI. For more information about installing and configuring the Harvester Helm chart, see the [readme](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/blob/master/deploy/charts/harvester/README.md).

1. Create an RKE2 configuration file.
    ```bash
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/rancher/rke2
    cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
    disable:
    - rke2-snapshot-controller
    - rke2-snapshot-controller-crd
    - rke2-snapshot-validation-webhook
    node-label:
    - harvesterhci.io/managed=true
    token: token
    cni:
    - multus
    - canal
    EOF
    ```

1. Install RKE2.
    ```bash
    curl -sfL https://get.rke2.io | sudo sh -
    sudo systemctl enable rke2-server.service --now
    ```

1. Create a kubeconfig file.
    ```bash
    mkdir -p ~/.kube
    sudo cp /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml ~/.kube/config
    sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) ~/.kube/config
    ```

> 1. Install system-upgrade-controller. This Kubernetes-native upgrade controller for nodes installs `upgrade.cattle.io/v1` CRDs. If there is no `kubectl` in `/usr/local/bin`, you can find it in `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/bin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install system-upgrade-controller. This Kubernetes-native upgrade controller for nodes installs `upgrade.cattle.io/v1` CRDs.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/rancher/system-upgrade-controller/releases/download/v0.13.1/system-upgrade-controller.yaml
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

:::info note
If you are unable to locate the `kubectl` binary in `/usr/local/bin`, check `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/bin`.
:::

```

    ```bash
    helm install harvester-crd ./harvester/deploy/charts/harvester-crd --namespace harvester-system
    ```

1. Install the Harvester chart using kube-vip running on a static IP.
    ```bash
    VIP_ADDRESS="replace with an IP which is allocated to any device, such as 192.168.5.131"
    helm install harvester ./harvester/deploy/charts/harvester --namespace harvester-system \
    --set harvester-node-disk-manager.enabled=true \
    --set "harvester-node-disk-manager.labelFilter={COS_*,HARV_*}" \
    --set harvester-network-controller.enabled=true \
    --set harvester-network-controller.vipEnabled=true \
    --set harvester-load-balancer.enabled=true \
    --set kube-vip.enabled=true \
    --set kube-vip-cloud-provider.enabled=true \
    --set longhorn.enabled=true \
    --set longhorn.defaultSettings.defaultDataPath=/var/lib/harvester/defaultdisk \
    --set longhorn.defaultSettings.taintToleration=kubevirt.io/drain:NoSchedule \
    --set rancherEmbedded=true \
    --set service.vip.enabled=true \
    --set service.vip.mode=static \
    --set service.vip.ip=${VIP_ADDRESS}
    ```

1. Access the Harvester UI at https://${VIP_ADDRESS}. The default password is `admin`.

> ## Installation other nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installation of Other Nodes
```

1. Create an RKE2 configuration file.
    ```bash
    sudo mkdir -p /etc/rancher/rke2
    cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml
    server: https://<vip address>:9345
    token: token
    EOF
    ```

> 1. Install RKE2 agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install the RKE2 agent.
```
